Thank you.
Thank you and good morning.
I went backwards already.
This session is called
Understanding Document Binding.
I thought that I should start
by explaining what we mean by
document binding so we know
what we're talking about.
One of the breakthrough or revolutionary
features of the original Mac back in
1984 was the ability to let users double
click on a document and have it open in
the right application or an application
that could work with the document.
And this was revolutionary just
because the user didn't have to
figure out which tools to use anymore.
The user could just start
working on a document.
And it's still a very
critical feature today.
So very narrowly defined,
document binding is what makes that work.
It's how the OS associates documents with
applications that can view and edit them.
And on Mac OS X,
that service is provided by
the Launch Services Framework.
So that's the technology we're gonna
be talking about for the next hour,
and specifically going into what's
new with Launch Services on Tiger.
First, I gave a very narrow definition.
Launch Services actually does
more than simply associate
documents and applications,
and I wanted to review
what those things are.
It's an API that is used heavily
by the Finder and the Dock,
other applications,
third-party applications to open things.
It's an API that can actually
just open an application,
open documents, and on Mac OS X,
we added the ability to associate URLs,
specifically URL schemes,
with applications that
can handle those URLs.
And so there's API for opening all
of those things and creating new
applications in the user's workspace.
As I said, in order to make that work,
Launch Services figures out and keeps
track of application document bindings.
So it looks at your application,
looks at your info P list and
figures out what kind of documents
and URLs you can handle and it
remembers all those associations.
Now, with so many applications
available today,
there's often a number of applications
on the system that can handle
any particular type of document.
Launch Services keeps track of user
preferences so that we know actually
which application is preferred when the
user double clicks on a given document.
And then finally,
because there are certain things
provided or related to document
binding that appear in the UI,
such as in the finder and
in other applications,
such as kind strings for a document,
localized display names for documents
and applications and folders,
there's this abstraction layer,
a thin abstraction layer above the file
system that Launch Services provides
additional attributes that appear
in the UI that give us the nice user
experience that we expect on the Mac.
So those are the things
that Launch Services does.
And I'd like to talk
then about the topics,
if I can get this to work.
The topics we want to talk
about today as far as what's
new in Launch Services on Tiger.
The first one is actually not new.
Uniform Type Identifiers
were introduced in 10.3,
but they were very specifically
introduced for one purpose,
which was to support the
new Carbon Pasteboard API.
And they're going to be used
much more widely on Tiger,
and I want to give a quick
overview of what they are,
how they work, because it's relevant to
the rest of the session.
Uniform Type Identifiers are
going to be used in a new way to
declare your document kinds in your
InfoP list so that you can simplify
your InfoP list and benefit from
other features that UTIs provide.
There are three new sets
of API in Launch Services.
The first one is a new way
to access item attributes.
That's the abstraction
layer over the file system.
New API for actually setting and
reading user binding preferences.
And new options for opening things.
New ways to open documents, URLs,
and applications.
I've got a little spiel about security
and how it relates to Launch Services.
And I want to finish up with some
interesting ways in which we're extending
the whole idea of opening things and how,
what kinds of things can be
opened in the user's workspace.
So let's start with
Uniform Type Identifiers.
When Mac OS X was introduced,
we wanted to play really well with
the rest of the computing world.
One of the controversial things we did
was recognize file name extensions.
We also wanted to work really
well with the Internet.
These things were all facts of
life that we had to interoperate
well with the computing world.
It led to a kind of Tower of Babel as
far as how we identify data and file
system object types on the system.
And to use an example of this,
these are all the different
ways that TIFF data might
be identified on Mac OS X.
There's a MIME type.
There's two file name
extensions that are distinct,
but they mean the same thing.
There's COCO's NS TIFF keyboard
type for the NS Pasteboard.
And then there's the TIFF OS type,
which might be on the Carbon scrap or
could be associated with a file on disk.
And there was no system service
to kind of tie all these together.
And make it clear that they were related.
There was Internet config,
but it didn't cover all
of these namespaces,
and it was really geared
towards the Internet.
And we wanted to provide a general
service for abstractly recognizing types,
and that's what UTIs are.
We decided we needed to introduce
a new namespace because none of the
existing ones really did the trick.
They were too prone to collisions,
or in order to avoid collisions,
like MIME type,
they required registration.
And there were all sorts of MIME types
that aren't even declared or don't
exist yet that we wanted to associate
with the files on the system.
And so we didn't want to
be tied to MIME types.
We created a new naming convention
called Uniform Type Identifier.
This is an example, public.tiff.
And what's key to making it not
just another namespace is that built
into the system is the ability to
map it to other type namespaces.
The API associated with UTIs
allows you to go back and forth
between a UTI and a MIME type,
file name extension, and so on.
It's very easy to, given a file,
figure out what its UTI is,
given some data on the pasteboard,
see its UTI, and so on.
That's one thing that's built in that
helps us make sense of all
this type identification stuff.
I'm gonna have to bend down like
this to get the slides to go forward.
What about the namespace?
Well, we...
When Mac OS X was introduced,
we borrowed from Java to use the reverse
DNS namespace for bundle identifiers.
In a way,
a bundle identifier is the modern
replacement for the creator
signature on an application.
It was natural to extend
that to type identifiers.
Let me bring up a couple
of other examples.
For types that are proprietary or
owned by a particular organization,
we use the reverse DNS naming convention.
com.apple.picked is a
quick draw picture data.
com.adobe.photoshop.psd would be
an example of a Photoshop document.
The important thing is
that they're unique.
The name doesn't imply any
sort of type hierarchy,
as with mind types.
But the important thing is that using
reverse DNS makes it naturally unique,
and we're not going to have collisions.
They're also kind of verbose.
You can read them.
You know what organization
they're associated with,
who to go to for more information
about a type you're not familiar with.
And then for types that really
are in the public domain or not
owned by any of the standard types,
we just put those in the public.
So that it's clear that they're
UTIs and that they're standard.
Now, I mentioned the type
hierarchy with MIME types.
We wanted to go further than that.
The MIME type hierarchy is very fixed.
It's built into the
name and fairly simple.
You've got images, audio, video, text.
We felt it was important to have a
runtime to identify types in a hierarchy.
As we go through the session and
other sessions later this week,
you'll see how that hierarchy is useful.
These are all examples of images,
the same types I had on the last slide.
They are declared as being subtypes
or conforming to public.image,
an abstract type.
This is important because users
think of these files as images.
By associating them as subtypes
of something called public.image,
we can associate certain attributes
that are associated with images,
such as the resolution, height, width,
and so on.
This is something that Spotlight uses
a lot for building the metadata store.
To go a step further,
all images are data streams,
and so pretty much every file on
disk is a subtype of public.data
because it's a data stream.
But because it's a multiple
inheritance hierarchy,
we can add other tags, if you will,
or names to a type.
And content is something that
reflects document content,
something that when the
user double clicks on it,
it's going to open as a document,
something they can edit.
Just some other examples of
abstract types like that.
Let's look at subtypes of content.
We've got images,
of which I gave a few concrete examples.
We've also got public.text,
which is anything which is text encoded.
This is not going to be a complete
overview of the type hierarchy.
This session is not
supposed to be about UTIs,
but it's important to get
a feel for what it's like.
There's some documentation
I can point you at later.
Audiovisual Content Audiovisual
Content is a way to group all
time-based media together.
We can also model different
kinds of directories.
So we use directories in a lot of
different ways in the file system now.
But the root type for
directories is public.directory.
And everything pretty much
goes into two categories.
Either it's a folder,
which is something the
user can navigate into,
or it's a package,
which is something we define as something
that to the user looks like a file.
And an example of a concrete
package is an application bundle.
Finally,
I just wanted to give another example
of how multiple inheritance can be used.
There's several kinds of
applications on the system.
There's application bundles.
There's also files with the type APPL,
which can be applications.
And so we have an abstract
supertype com.apple.application.
And you can use that, for instance,
in a file selection dialog.
If you filter for just one UTI,
com.apple.application,
the user will be able to
select any kind of application,
whether it's a bundle or a file.
So it gives us this very
rich type description model.
And it's extensible.
Because the name space
naturally avoids collisions,
you can add your type to the hierarchy.
And you do that by putting a
declaration in your info P list.
It's some XML, which is pretty simple.
It's similar to how document
types are currently declared.
You give the type identifier.
You say what it conforms to.
And then you list out the different
kinds of tags or other name spaces,
such as this one has two file
name extensions and one mind type.
And that's how you create
automatic mappings between the UTI,
the abstract type, that is,
and specific name space tags.
So those are the key points about UTIs.
We've got naming conventions
that ensure uniqueness.
It gives us an abstract idea of
what a type is independent of
all the different namespaces.
They also exist in a hierarchy,
which gives us a nice model for
filtering and associating metadata.
And the key is to declare your own
types so that other applications
can take advantage of them.
And you'll see some
advantages of that later on.
In 10.3, there were not a whole lot
of types declared because,
as I said, it was targeted really
just the pasteboard.
But we've added a lot more.
There are string constants for them along
with some commentary in this header,
UTCoreTypes.h.
So enough of that.
Let's go on more specifically to
Launch Services and how UTIs can
simplify your application development.
When you declare your document types,
that is, what kinds of documents you
can open in your application,
It's fairly laborious.
You have to,
even for basic types like JPEG, TIFF,
or text files,
you have to go through and you
list every possible OS type,
every MIME type,
every file name extension
that you want to recognize.
It's kind of very literal.
And there's no notion of
abstractly recognizing a type.
And that means every application
that opens JPEGs has to come up with
the right list of JPEG identifiers.
And more importantly, if you open text,
well,
there's no way in the world that you
can possibly list every file name
extension that might be a text type.
So,
UTIs allow us to simplify that process
and leverage the type hierarchy
and type knowledge contributed by
other applications on the system.
is the founder of the company,
and he's been working
with us for a long time.
Here is, this is pulled from preview.app.
This is...
Not even the whole type declaration,
but this is just for three types.
We've got TIFF, JPEG, and PICT.
And it's saying that it's a
viewer for these three types.
It lists all of the different
file name extensions and OS types,
and it provides an
icon and a kind string.
And it's a lot of text.
I purposely made it unreadable.
That's the point.
It's small because there's a lot of it,
and I had to fit it all in one slide.
On Tiger, you can simplify all that.
We've got one dictionary here of
listing several document types,
and it uses a new key:
LS_ITEM_CONTENT_TYPES.
And it's an array of UTIs.
claiming JPEG, TIFF, and PICT,
the same three types from the last slide.
And it says that the application
is a viewer for these types.
And it doesn't... If you don't want to,
you don't even have to provide an icon
or a kinestring because the system
will provide the default icon and
kinestring associated with those types.
You still can if you want to
have a branded icon when a
file is bound to your app.
You can provide an icon,
but you don't have to.
You don't risk having a completely
generic document show up,
document icon show up
by not providing one.
So as you can see, this is much simpler.
And it allows all applications using
this style of declaration to have the
same definition of what a JPEG is,
what a TIFF is, and what a PICT is.
So everyone's using the same extensions,
the same OS types,
because that's controlled
elsewhere by the type declaration.
Another way to think of it is that
we've... We took what was document
type declarations and we split it
up into an abstract type and then an
association of the type with a role,
in this case, viewer.
Another example,
I call this a free lunch,
because if you want to claim
to open all plain text files,
The advantage of doing this is that
you suddenly gain the ability to
open a plain text file declared by
some other application on the system.
So you don't even have to
know what the extension is or
how it's identified as text.
You rely on the system to determine that.
If you declare this this way,
then somebody will
take a plain text file,
try to drop it on your application,
and they'll get the right feedback,
and the document can be dropped,
even though you might have no
idea what the extension is.
[Transcript missing]
is a new way to allow folders and hard
disks to be dropped onto an application.
Now we have UTIs for those,
as well as for package types and so on.
And those can be listed as LS item
content types in your plist.
So I think what I should do now
is switch over to the demo machine
and just give an example here
of what I've been talking about.
The example I picked is TextEdit.
Everyone knows what it is.
The source code is available as an
example on the DVD you received.
We're starting out with stock TextEdit.
Let's see what it can do.
I'm going to show a series of drag
and drop operations because that's
an easy way to test document binding.
You get feedback as to
whether the application is
going to accept a document.
Here's a plain text shopping list.
Obviously, that is going to work.
Let's move along.
Here's a .c file, source code.
Is it going to be able to handle that?
Probably.
Here's some HTML.
I'm not sure what it's
gonna do with that,
but it is text, so let's see.
Okay, so actually TextEdit
knows how to render HTML.
That's kind of nice.
It gives me a nice rich text display.
Now here's a PDF.
That's not really a text file,
but let's see what
TextEdit's going to do.
Looks like maybe it is going to open it.
Oh, that's kind of disappointing,
isn't it?
It's kind of a downer because it looked
like it was going to do the right thing,
and it really didn't.
This just -- that's not what I want.
Well, so that's not so good.
I wonder -- well,
I wonder what would happen
if I grabbed a hard disk.
Well, it looks like it can open those,
too.
At least it didn't try to display
the contents of my hard disk.
[Transcript missing]
gives a stab at recognizing anything as
a text file and trying to display it.
[Transcript missing]
is a very good example of how to
use the CFBundle document types.
is a very interesting person.
He's been working on a lot of
things in the last couple of years.
and that asterisk is really what,
they don't even have to list
anything else in their P list.
If you just list an asterisk, it says,
let anything be dropped
on this application.
And with UTIs,
we can do a little bit better than that.
And I'm gonna,
Go in here and just
get rid of everything.
And I even want to...
Get rid of most of these here.
Get rid of the icon, line types,
type name.
OS types, we need that.
We've got the role, it's an editor.
And I'm gonna create a new key,
LS item content types.
And if I don't get it exactly right,
it'll be a sad demo.
And this is an array.
And let's add a UTI here.
Public.Text.
So this is saying open
any kind of text file.
By the way,
the difference between text and
plain dash text is that text
includes things like HTML or RTF,
text with markup.
Plain text has no markup.
So I built it, I think.
and let's see, this was actually the
build target right here.
Let's see what happens.
We can still open shopping lists.
[Transcript missing]
If we grab PDF, however,
it won't let us drop it anymore,
because PDF is not a type of text.
And why don't we grab the hard disk,
and sure enough,
it won't let us drop that either.
In fact, the finder is showing
the Make Alias icon,
because it's gonna make an alias
in this folder if I drop it here.
So we've improved the user
feedback there and simplified
the P list at the same time.
Now, just one more quick example.
Suppose for some reason we wanted to
add back the ability to open volumes,
TextEdit suddenly could browse volumes.
So let's add one more UTI in here.
should be able to drop
that if we wanted to.
So by adding one value to the P list,
we can really get very precise
definition or declaration,
if you will, of what kinds of documents
your application can open.
[Transcript missing]
When you double click a
particular kind of document,
if there's an application
that specifically claims
that UTI or document kind,
it will be preferred.
But if there is no specific
application available like that,
then an application, say,
claiming plain text will become a
candidate for opening a text file.
So one problem with all this
is that you're going to start
getting open document events,
ODoc, Apple events,
for files that you may
not know anything about.
You may not recognize any of the
metadata associated with that file.
So you need to know
what kind of file it is.
And for that, we're providing new
API in Launch Services.
There's a new content type property
associated with everything on disk.
It's not actually on disk,
but you get at it
through Launch Services.
There's really no need to store yet
another type identifier on disk,
because we've got file name extensions,
we've got OS types.
And so the content type is a
UTI that is essentially derived
from all the available metadata,
and you just have to ask
Launch Services what the content type is,
and then you know.
And it may be a very
specific subtype that,
again, you don't know anything about,
but you can test it for conformance
to the types you do recognize.
So if you recognize plain text, you say,
okay, I've got a UTI.
Does it conform to plain text?
You ask us that, and we say yes,
and then you know what to do with it.
As far as API,
to get at the content type attribute,
we could have just added a new method,
say, given this FSRef,
what is the content type?
The reason we didn't do that was that
we kind of have been adding a number of
those on with each release of Mac OS X.
First, there was the kind string
that you could get for a file.
Then there was the display name.
The problem is that each
of those introduce I.O.
or cause I.O.
to happen.
And so if you have to
get several attributes,
the I.O.
gets done over and over again.
So we've generalized that
to two new functions,
LS copy item attribute and,
more interestingly,
LS copy item attributes, a bulk call.
So that attributes have names,
and you also have to provide a role mask,
which means, you know,
you're asking for an attribute
as an editor or a viewer,
because the role can affect
the document binding.
And you get back a value,
which is often a string,
but it could be any core
foundation object type,
such as a Boolean, a number.
In the case of the bulk call,
you pass in an array of attribute names,
and you get back a dictionary
of key value pairs.
And the bulk call is really nice.
If you know what attributes
you need in your UI,
what you're going to have
to display or work with,
you can ask for all of those at once,
and we only have to do the I.O.
once on the file to get the attributes.
So there's a number of string
constants naming the attributes
now in the Launch Services headers.
The attributes include,
and there's a few other ones,
but the major ones are the content type,
which is the UTI.
And by the way,
content type is also the term used for
Spotlight for the metadata framework,
which you'll learn more about tomorrow.
And it's very important property
for categorizing metadata.
Content type is the only new attribute.
We also provide the display name,
the kind string,
and just for completeness
and to allow bulk access,
you can get the type, the creator,
and the extension of the target object.
So that's the Attributes API.
I want to go on now to
the next set of API,
which is new in Tiger,
which is setting handler preferences.
I didn't want to go through another
WWDC without being able to say
that we can essentially replace
the Internet config functionality.
Finally, on Mac OS X, and that's what the
Preferences API provides,
is a way to do part of
what Internet Config did,
which was associate file types
and extensions with a creator code
that would be the default handler,
and also associate schemes
with a creator code,
which would be the default
handler for a given URL.
And we've tried to keep it
simple and in that spirit,
but using the data types that
are in common use on Mac OS X.
So the terminology goes like this:
A handler is an application which is
capable of opening a particular kind
of document or a particular URL scheme.
And for a given document type or scheme,
you can get what the default handler is,
that is the one that the user prefers.
You can get all the
known handlers in a list,
and that's useful for driving a UI,
say for a pop-up menu.
and you can set the default handler.
Now, handlers are specified not by a
specific application instance,
but by bundle ID.
And so it allows us to pick
the user's preferred app.
Say if an app is already running,
for instance,
and the user prefers that bundle ID,
we're gonna use the app
that's already running,
not another one on disk.
So when you set preferences,
you give a bundle identifier.
And as I mentioned,
this pretty much replaces a key
part of the Internet Config API.
So here's a simple
example of a bundle ID.
Content type handlers are driven by UTIs,
expressed with a content type,
in this case, JPEG.
If you were to ask Launch Services for
a list of possible handlers,
you would actually get back a pretty
long list of JPEG handlers on the system.
But to simplify it, here are three:
Preview, of course,
which is the one that ships
out of the box as the default.
BBEdit can actually display JPEGs,
I found, and Internet Explorer.
and each handler has a role.
So this is saying that the default
viewer for JPEG is com.apple.preview.
and so if you ask the default viewer,
you'll get back that bundle identifier.
If you set the default viewer to BBEdit,
it will create an association to
handle JPEGs by default in BBEdit.
Now,
Here are the APIs real quick.
All I need to say about them is that
there's three functions for UTIs.
You can get the default role handler,
copy all the role
handlers to get a list of
[Transcript missing]
It's a little bit
simpler for URL schemes,
but the same idea.
You can pass in a URL scheme.
There's no roles with handling URLs,
but you pass in a URL scheme,
you can get the default handler,
you can get a list of all the
available handlers for a given scheme.
So you pass in HTTP, you get back all the
browsers on the system,
for example, and you can set what
the default handler is.
So, very simple API,
and this is something that developers
have requested for some time.
There are various reasons why
in your preferences dialogue
or at application launch,
you might want to give the user some
choice about making your app the default.
But I want to put some guidelines
out there for setting handlers
that you need to remember.
These are -- because we're taking a
little bit of a risk by making all
these public because they can be abused.
The idea of these APIs is that
they set user preferences,
not developer preferences.
You may want all of your documents
and URLs to go to your application,
but this is not an invitation
to just slam the settings.
All of these should be used
with the user's wishes in mind.
So, if you're going to be
changing preferences,
you should be informative
about what you're doing,
what you're changing.
Give the user a choice and make sure
that you have the user's consent.
You follow what the user asks
for and don't pester the user.
I know that there's a desire
sometimes on first launch of an
application to ask if you want
the app to be the default handler.
And that's okay.
Throwing up an alert isn't the ideal UI,
but just don't do it every time.
If the user says no,
the user has said no.
If the user says yes, great.
Thank you.
The third set of new API that I want
to talk about today is opening things.
We've had a bunch of developer
requests over the last couple of years,
and they've piled up enough so that we
can provide them all in one fell swoop.
So I actually tried to include
Everything we had a record of in
our bug database for things people
wanted from the LS open calls.
Those include getting back a
process serial number when you
open a document or an application.
works with me.
The initial Apple event,
so you can put together any arbitrary
Apple event you want and pass it to
an application that you're launching.
[Transcript missing]
Finally, being able to open a document
with a specific role.
If you want to open a document
for viewing or specifically for
editing or for some other role,
this API lets you do that.
What does it look like?
Well, first of all,
there's a structure which is
used by the three functions
which are going to follow.
And inside the structure is
everything related to specifically
launching an application.
That is,
nothing related to documents or URLs,
but just specifying an application
and how it should be launched.
It's called LS application parameters.
And
There's Launch Flags,
which are already used
in the old LS Open API.
There is an FS Ref for which
application should be launched.
And then there's some other
things like the environment as
a dictionary of key value pairs,
the command line arguments
as an array of strings,
and the initial Apple event.
And this is nice.
You don't even have to flatten
the Apple event like you did
with the Process Manager APIs.
You just create an Apple event.
is the first Apple event to be
delivered to the Target app.
If you want to open an application,
you have this simple function to call:
lsopenapplication.
You pass in the parameters
structure that we just looked at,
and you get back a process serial number.
That's a nice simple one.
[Transcript missing]
And then there's a similar API for URLs.
In this case, it's very similar,
except that you have an
array of URLs to open.
These could be document URLs, by the way,
which is especially convenient for, say,
Cocoa apps.
You can pass in file URLs here,
and they'll be handled as documents.
That's all the new
API I want to talk about.
There's a few other odds and ends,
but that is the bulk of it.
It's new in Tiger.
Now I want to talk about security.
Just earlier this month,
there was a security
update that went out,
and Launch Services was
in that security update.
In fact, it was happening just as I was
trying to gear up for WWDC,
so it distracted me for a while.
But we actually had to change the
Launch Services behavior in order
to avoid running an application
that the user didn't trust.
That is, an application which the
user may have downloaded,
perhaps accidentally,
and then maybe the user
clicked on a URL on a web page,
and that application was
a handler for the URL,
and it would get launched.
So there's a small chance there
could be a malicious application
that got launched this way.
We didn't actually
have any cases of this,
but we wanted to close that.
that up as soon as possible.
So the important thing I want to
pass along is kind of what changed in
Launch Services and also how you guys
participate in maintaining security
with respect to launching things.
The main goal was don't run
untrusted code without user consent.
In this context, untrusted code we define
as an application which has
never before been launched.
If the application has been launched,
we take that as kind of an
implicit statement of trust.
The user asked for that
application to be launched.
If it's a malicious app,
once it's launched, it's done its thing.
Running it again probably
isn't going to be any worse.
And furthermore, it's the user's system.
We have to allow the user to
do what the user wants to do.
So once an app is launched, it's trusted.
But if it's never been launched before,
then we don't necessarily
want to trust its bindings.
That is, we don't want to use it in
particular when the user double
clicks a document or opens a URL,
which is bound only to that application.
So the design principles,
we kind of had to be really
careful because we didn't want
to ruin the user experience.
But the design principles are
do what the user is asking for.
When we're evaluating document
bindings and URL bindings,
always prefer trusted applications.
If there's several
choices of applications,
pick a trusted one,
one that the user has run before.
If there are no trusted apps,
then give the user a chance to
intervene and stop an app from launching
that they may not be expecting.
But then once an app does launch,
trust that application in the future.
So this results in
A minimal, I guess,
disruption of the user experience.
But now, if the user double clicks,
essentially when an app
is first installed on the
system or it's downloaded,
it's in an untrusted state.
And if the user launches
that application,
there's no intervention, no UI.
If the user drags something and
drops it on that application,
that's an explicit gesture
to launch an application.
But if the user clicks a URL in
the browser and we're about
to launch an untrusted app,
then we actually will show some UI.
And it's a warning.
The internet location you are
opening will open the application
malware for the first time.
Are you sure you want to
open this application?
And this is the chance we're giving
the user to intervene and say no.
And there's no default button.
They have to make a choice.
This is the way we came up with to
minimally disrupt the user experience,
but also give the user a chance to stop
an application from running unexpectedly.
So, what are your responsibilities
in making all this work?
As I said,
if the user double clicks an application,
we're going to launch it.
And all the finder is doing is
calling LS open on the application.
So likewise, if you are going to
launch an application,
we're not going to put up a dialogue.
asking the user if this is
what they really want to do.
So it's up to you guys to make
sure that you're launching an
application which is trusted.
Either it's an application
you know about,
like it's one of the applications
in your suite of applications,
one of your helper apps,
or it's something that was
explicitly selected by the user,
like in James Thompson's
drag thing is a launcher app.
So if the user clicks a tile there,
it's essentially user consent.
So those are the main things.
If you launch an application,
either it's one of your trusted
apps or it's something the
user explicitly asked for.
If you are going to open
a document or a URL,
generally just let
Launch Services choose which application.
If you pass in a document and
a specific application to use,
it's like a drag and drop gesture.
It's interpreted as an explicit
request to launch an app,
and we're not going to pester the
user with an alert in that case.
But if you just say open a document
and let Launch Services choose,
that is specify null for the application,
then you'll get two benefits.
First of all,
it'll be respecting the user's
binding preferences because
LS will follow that choice.
And it will also enable us to show
the consent alert if it's necessary to
block an untrusted app from launching.
There's one other new thing in
Tiger which we want to build
awareness of and over time
will help us improve security.
We want to encourage people
to use a new role of shell,
role shell, in your info.p list.
Prior to Tiger,
the only two roles you could list in
your InfoP list were editor and viewer.
It turns out that there's really another
kind of document commonly in use,
which isn't really a document.
It's an executable,
which isn't an application.
It could be a JAR file,
a Java application,
or an Apple script or any other kind
of proprietary scripting language.
People clicking it is going to
execute the program in that document.
And if you are offering that kind of
service for one of your documents,
put it in your info.p list as role shell.
This will allow us to know
that you're not actually going
to edit or view the document,
you're going to execute the document.
And so there may be special security
measures that we want to provide
in the future in order to help the
user know what's going to happen.
For instance,
we might change the appearance
of things which are going to get
executed when they're double clicked.
It might look a little bit
different than regular documents.
I'm not saying we're going to do that.
In fact, we haven't even tried that,
but it's a possibility.
So, likewise, if all executable files are
claimed with role shell,
then when you go to LS open something,
if you want to make
sure it's not executed,
you can just specify role
editor or role viewer,
and we'll refuse to pick an app
that claims role shell for the type
of document that you're opening.
So that's something new to Tiger,
and we just are encouraging
people to start using it.
It will become more useful over time.
The last topic today I want to talk
about is extending the open metaphor.
This is something I've been
wanting to do for a while,
and it's fun to show it in Tiger now.
Since the doc was introduced,
it's this really
nice access point for applications.
And from the beginning,
we've been able to drag documents
down to the dock and drop
them onto application tiles.
And it's a great drop target
because it's always there,
it's always at the top layer,
it's never hidden behind anything.
And I found that there were times when
I was frustrated because there were
other things I wanted to drag down
to the dock and nothing would happen.
I would hover over an application
tile and there's no feedback,
you can't drop anything.
And so,
By extending the open metaphor,
I'm looking at what other
kinds of things can we open.
Currently, we can open applications,
documents, and URLs, and we can do that
through various methods,
such as the open menu
command in the finder,
single clicking a URL,
double clicking a document,
and then there's drag and drop.
Drag and drop is something
that you can do with documents,
but you can also drag content
out of an application window.
You can drag a URL out
of an application window.
And wouldn't it be nice if we could
do something with that in the doc?
And in order to really
help you understand,
I'm just going to show it to you.
I've done this demo a couple of times
now for various people at Apple,
and a common reaction is,
"Can't we do that already?"
And that's very promising,
very... I like that reaction because
it means it's a natural thing.
And amazingly,
all the stuff I'm about to do,
we can't do in Panther, in 10.3.
So, I'm in mail,
and my friend Keith has sent me an email,
which I want to take a look at.
It says, "Chris,
did you see this morning's news about
Spaceship One?" This was last week.
No, I hadn't seen the news
about Spaceship One,
but I'm wondering what he means.
Then I noticed Keith's
kind of a knucklehead.
He put the URL up in the subject line.
You know, mail doesn't expect a
URL in subject line,
so it's not a live link like
it would be in the body.
And invariably, this happens, right?
You get into some context
where there's not a live link,
and you've got a URL,
and you have to copy it
out onto the pasteboard,
go to a browser, paste it in,
press return to get there.
And it would be much smoother if we could
just grab that URL and drag it down,
say, to Safari, and have it open the URL.
So, it's much faster.
And it got me here to this
article about Spaceship One,
the first privately funded
spaceship to leave the atmosphere.
And that's pretty cool.
And there's some info about the first
successful test flight and some photos.
But I really actually would like to get
to the Spaceship One official website.
And I'm wondering if there's
any way I can do that.
Well, maybe I can grab this
and drag it down here.
But that's not a URL,
so what does Safari do with it?
Well, it does a Google search on it.
And the first...
The first hit here is the
SpaceshipOne homepage.
So let's go there and see what we've got.
Here it is.
They've got a bunch of information
about the spaceship and the test flight.
And let us, oh, there's some photos.
[Transcript missing]
- I kind of would like
to get a closer look,
so I'm gonna grab that photo and drag it
down to preview and drop it on preview.
And I get a new window here in preview.
Whoops, switch back to preview.
And that's kind of useful
because I can zoom in.
I'm not really getting more resolution,
but I can see it a little bit
better and I can grab it around.
So it was just a nice,
simple way to get an image
into another application.
Maybe I wanna save it at this point,
or I could even drag it
into an image editor.
Let's go back to the website.
Here's the press release page.
Here's their press release for
announcing their first successful flight.
Maybe I want to send that
back to my friend Keith.
I'm going to do select all and
grab that and drag it down to mail.
I get a new message ready
to be addressed to mail.
It doesn't have the image yet,
but we're working on that.
As you can see,
this is all very natural gestures,
saves time,
and it really leverages the dock
as a great drop destination.
Now I get to one of the coolest
parts about this is that
I didn't have to change those
applications except for preview.
I made no changes to those
applications to make that demo work.
I added about five lines to preview in
order to allow it to accept the drop.
But otherwise, Mail and Safari were
already set up to do this,
and you wonder, how can that speed?
The way it works is that we already
have a very well-established mechanism
for working with data on the pasteboard
coming from another application,
and that is the Services menu.
Applications in their
InfoP list can declare services,
and they show up under
the application menu,
say for mail.
You can select some text,
go to the Services menu,
and you see a bunch of services
offered by other applications
that operate on text,
for example.
Amen.
This is really then just a
new way to invoke a service.
So we're integrating existing
technology with the doc,
and this is the details of how it works.
Some of the details, I guess.
We do use an Apple event in order to send
the data between applications because
we want it to be all asynchronous.
And so there's the new Apple event,
KAEOpenContents, or Ocon, and it...
is very similar to an ODOC event,
except instead of a list
of document references,
it's a list of data items, of AE desks.
And each desk contains
the data to be opened.
So when I drag that image out
of Safari down to preview,
we created an Ocon event,
we stuffed the entire
image into the Ocon event,
and we very efficiently
moved it between processes,
delivered it to preview.
But preview doesn't have
an Ocon event handler,
and none of those applications
have an Ocon event handler.
You can choose to handle the
Ocon event directly if you want,
or you can allow Launch Services to
handle it for you.
And what Launch Services does
in Tiger is it installs a system
default handler for the Ocon event.
And when an Ocon event goes unhandled,
we look at the current
application's list of services,
and we look to see,
is there a service that the app provides?
Which can handle this type of data?
And if there is,
we just invoke the service.
So if you adopt services,
not only will you appear
in the services menu,
but now you will also be able to
have the service invoked as a drop
target on your application icon.
We'll also integrate this
into the Finder for dropping
things in the Finder as well.
That is, dropping things on application
icons in the Finder.
And that might be it.
Oh, one more slide.
So, some of this I already went over.
You add a services
declaration to your P-list.
I'm going to share some of the
tips and tricks I use to help
you understand how to use Ocon.
You can be a little more
creative than that if you wish.
Safari was a good example there.
It got some plain text.
It was able to take that and
figure out that it should do a
Google search on it because that's
the most logical thing to happen.
So feel free to be creative.
So what are the main points
I want you to take away today?
They are the following.
Uniform Type Identifiers
are used much more widely in
Tiger than they were on Panther,
both in Launch Services,
Carbon Pasteboard, what else?
The new Translation Services Carbon API.
We have plans in Tiger to use them
in Navigation Services for filtering,
and Cocoa has plans to adopt
them more widely also in its API.
Spotlight organizes metadata
around Uniform Type Identifiers.
It's a great foundational
technology on the system.
We have new API for setting
handler preferences.
Use them, don't abuse them.
We have new LS Open functions
with a bunch of features
that you guys have asked for.
Please try to follow our new guidelines
for opening things and help us
maintain security on the system.
and finally,
using services now with integration
with drag and drop gives you a great new
kind of portal into your application,
increasing the value of your
application to the user.
And I am done now.
I think we have one more.
I asked documentation.
We have some documentation now
on Uniform Type Identifiers.
It was just finished
a couple of weeks ago,
and it's available on the
WWDC Reference Library site.
And also, it didn't make the DVD,
but I encourage you to
read the release notes,
also the Launch Services release notes.
Not everything you've
seen is implemented yet.
And so, it's good to read the release
notes before you get frustrated.
We're going to get it to
you as soon as we can.